sql: add sequence docs (#1988)
pingcap/docs: reference/sql/statements/create-sequence.md

**OptTemporary:**

![OptTemporary](/media/sqlgram-dev/OptTemporary.png)

**IfNotExists:**

![IfNotExists](/media/sqlgram-dev/IfNotExists.png)

**TableName:**

![TableName](/media/sqlgram-dev/TableName.png)

**CreateSequenceOptionListOpt:**

![CreateSequenceOptionListOpt](/media/sqlgram-dev/CreateSequenceOptionListOpt.png)

**SequenceOption:**

![SequenceOption](/media/sqlgram-dev/SequenceOption.png)

**CreateTableOptionListOpt:**

![CreateTableOptionListOpt](/media/sqlgram-dev/CreateTableOptionListOpt.png)

## Syntax

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE [TEMPORARY] SEQUENCE [IF NOT EXISTS] sequence_name
    [ INCREMENT [ BY | = ] increment ]
    [ MINVALUE [=] minvalue | NO MINVALUE | NOMINVALUE ]
    [ MAXVALUE [=] maxvalue | NO MAXVALUE | NOMAXVALUE ]
    [ START [ WITH | = ] start ]
    [ CACHE [=] cache | NOCACHE | NO CACHE]
    [ CYCLE | NOCYCLE | NO CYCLE]
    [ ORDER | NOORDER | NO ORDER]
    [table_options]
```

## Parameters

|Parameters | Default value | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :--|
| `TEMPORARY` | `false` | TiDB currently does not support the `TEMPORARY` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |

> | `INCREMENT` | `1` | The increment to use for values. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |

Author: Because this feature is borrowed from MariaDB, I've checked the [MariaDB document](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/create-sequence/) and referred to their language which might be a little different from the original docs-cn PR. BTW, I am not sure whether `step size` is correct here. @AilinKid

> | `INCREMENT` | `1` | The increment to use for values. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |

Reviewer: Yes, Mariadb use `increment` to describe it directly,  so I think both of these are ok.

> | `INCREMENT` | `1` | The increment to use for values. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |

Reviewer 2: Then maybe "Specifies the increment of a sequence" or "Specifies the step size of a sequence"? @TomShawn

> | `INCREMENT` | `1` | The increment to use for values. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |

Author: OK

| `MINVALUE` | `1` or `-9223372036854775807` | Specifies the minimum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `1`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-9223372036854775807`. |
| `MAXVALUE` | `9223372036854775806` or `-1` | Specifies the maximum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `9223372036854775806`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-1`. |
| `START` | `MINVALUE` or `MAXVALUE`| Specifies the initial value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |

> | `CACHE` | `1000` | Specifies the size of the local cache sequence in TiDB. |

Reviewer: 是的

> | `CACHE` | `1000` | Specifies the size of the local cache sequence in TiDB. |

Reviewer 2: Please commit this suggetion~ @TomShawn

| `CYCLE` | `false` | Specifies whether a sequence restarts from the minimum value (or maximum for the descending sequence). When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |
| `ORDER` | `NO ORDER` | TiDB currently does not support the `ORDER` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |

## `SEQUENCE` function

You can control a sequence through the following expression functions:

+ `NEXTVAL` or `NEXT VALUE FOR`

    Essentially, both are the `nextval()` function that gets the next valid value of a sequence object. The parameter of the `nextval()` function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `LASTVAL`

    This function gets the last used value of this session. If the value does not exist, `NULL` is used. The parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `SETVAL`

>     This function sets the next value to be returned for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

Author: This is also from the [MariaDB document](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/setval/). I am not sure whether `用于设置序列的增长` is the correct description here. From the example below, this looks more like `sets the next value to be returned for a sequence`. @AilinKid

>     This function sets the next value to be returned for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

Reviewer: how about `progression of current value`?

>     This function sets the next value to be returned for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

Reviewer 2: `progression of current value` is okay. What do you think? @TomShawn

>     This function sets the next value to be returned for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

Author: OK

> **Note:**
>
> In the implementation of a sequence in TiDB, the `SETVAL` function cannot change the initial progression or cycle progression of this sequence. This function only returns the next valid value based on this progression.

## Examples

+ Create a sequence object with the default parameter:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE SEQUENCE seq;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.06 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `nextval()` function to get the next value of the sequence object:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | nextval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `lastval()` function to get the value generated by the last call to a sequence object in this session:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT lastval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | lastval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

> + Use the `setval()` function to set the position of the current value of the sequence object:

Reviewer: sequence is more like a number axis, the current value of a sequence is like what the current position in the axis.
so `current value of the sequence object:` and `current position of the sequence object:` may be more correct.

> + Use the `setval()` function to set the position of the current value of the sequence object:

Reviewer 2: I updated my suggestion. PTAL @TomShawn

    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ The first valid value of the `nextval()` function for the sequence object is the starting value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq2);
    ```

    ```
    +---------------+
    | nextval(seq2) |
    +---------------+
    |             3 |
    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ Although the `setval()` function can change the position of the current value of the sequence object, it cannot change the fixed increment or decrement of the next value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT setval(seq2, 6);
    ```

    ```
    +-----------------+
    | setval(seq2, 6) |
    +-----------------+
    |               6 |
    +-----------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ When you use `nextval()` to get the next value, the next value will follow the fixed increment or decrement of the sequence.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT next value for seq2;
    ```

    ```
    +---------------------+
    | next value for seq2 |
    +---------------------+
    |                   7 |
    +---------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

> + In the following example, you can use the next value of the sequence as the default value for the column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ You can use the next value of the sequence as the default value for the column, as in the following example.
```

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CRATE table t(a int default next value for seq2);
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)
    ```

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT * from t;
    ```

    ```
    +------+
    | a    |
    +------+
    |    9 |
    +------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

> + In the following example, the value is not specified and the default value of `seq2` is not within the range defined in the above example (`CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;`), so an error is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used. But the next value of `seq2` is not within the range defined in the above example (`CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;`), so an error is returned.
```
Rewrite according to the latest change in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/2567/files

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    ERROR 4135 (HY000): Sequence 'test.seq2' has run out
    ```

## MySQL compatibility

Currently, MySQL does not have the sequence option. The TiDB sequence is borrowed from MariaDB. Except for the `SETVAL` function, all other functions have the same progressions with those functions of MariaDB.

> Progression here means the arithmetic progression in a sequence after the numbers are defined. Although `SETVAL` can set the current value of a sequence, the subsequent values of the sequence still follows the progression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here "progression" means that the numbers in a sequence follow a certain arithmetic progression rule defined by the sequence. Although you can use `SETVAL` to set the current value of a sequence, the subsequent values of the sequence still follow the original progression rule.
```

For example:

```
1, 3, 5, ...            // The sequence starts from 1 and increments by 2.
select setval(seq, 6)   // Sets the current value of a sequence to 6.

> 7, 9, 11, ...           // Subsequent values still follow the progression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7, 9, 11, ...           // Subsequent values still follow the progression rule.
```

```

> In the `CYCLE` mode, the starting value of a sequence in the first round is `start`, and the starting value in the subsequent rounds is `MinValue` (increment > 0) or `MaxValue` (increment < 0).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `CYCLE` mode, the initial value of a sequence in the first round is the value of the `START` parameter, and the initial value in the subsequent rounds is the value of `MinValue` (`INCREMENT` > 0) or `MaxValue` (`INCREMENT` < 0).
```
格式用法与前面“Parameters” 一节保持一致
